You will now bring
everything together
and see how the Viterbi
algorithm works.
Just a heads up, this video
is a little bit complicated,
but I'll walk you through it
step-by-step, and by the end,
you'll be able to understand
exactly how the Viterbi
algorithm works.
Let's dive in. So far
you've calculated
the transition and
emission probabilities
for the Markov chain
and the hidden Markov model.
Given a part of speech tag
and these probabilities,
you can easily select
the most likely next parts of
speech tag or the
most probable word.
You can do so by looking
up the correct entry in
the respective row of the
transition or emission matrix.
But what if you're
given a sentence like,
why not learn something?
What is the most likely
sequence of parts of
speech tags given the
sentence and your model.
The sequence can be computed
using the Viterbi algorithm.
You're about to see lots of
formulas which are all based on
matrices representing
our hidden Markov model,
but the Viterbi algorithm is
actually a graph algorithm.
Picturing the problem we
want to solve on the graph,
will make it much
easier for us to
understand the formulas
and the algorithm.
Let's look at this toy
model and the sentence,
I love to learn, with
a leading start token.
You want to find the sequence of
hidden states or parts of
speech tags that have
the highest probability
for this sequence.
Be aware that the word love
can be emitted by both
the noun states NN and
the verb states NN.
You're starting from
the initial states Pi,
selecting the next most
probable hidden state,
which here is the O
state as the word I,
cannot be emitted from
any other states
in this toy model.
This involves the
transition probabilities
shown in green with 0.3,
and the emission probability
in orange with 0.5.
The joint probability
for observing the word
I and with a transition
through the 0 state is 0.15,
which you can calculate
by multiplying
the transition probability 0.3
and the emission
probability of 0.5.
Now, there are two
possibilities of
having observed the word love.
It is either by
traversing through
the hidden states NN or
the hidden states VB.
The transition
probabilities are the
same for going through either
of the two hidden states.
The emission probability for
the word love is higher
from the VB state,
so you should choose that spot,
with a combined
probability of 0.25.
Next you return to the 0 state,
as there is no other
hidden states with
a non-zero emission
probability for the word to.
The combined probability
here is 0.08.
At last, return to
the VB states again,
as there is no other
option for this toy model.
This step has a combined
probability of 0.1.
The total probability
is the product of
all the probabilities for the
single steps you've chosen,
which is 0.0003 here.
The Viterbi algorithm actually
computes several such paths at
the same time in order to find
the most likely sequence
of hidden states.
It uses the matrix
representation
of the hidden Markov model.
The algorithm can be split into
three main steps: The
initialization step,
the forward pass,
and the backward pass.
Given your transition and
emission probabilities,
you first populate and then use
the auxiliary matrices
C and D. The matrix C
holds the intermediate
optimal probabilities and
matrix B the indices
of the visited states.
As you're traversing
the model graph to find
the most likely
sequence of parts of
speech tags for the
given sequence of words,
W_1, all the way to W_K.
These two matrices have n rows,
where n is the
number of parts of
speech tags or hidden
states in our model,
and k columns, where k
is the number of words
in the given sequence.
You now know the three steps
required to implement
the Viterbi.
You also saw the two matrices
that you will be populating.
One will allow you to compute
the probabilities of
each path and the
other will tell you its path you
ended up taking. To recap.
The three steps required
are the initialization,
the forward pass, and
the backward pass.
In the next video,
we will start with
the initialization.